# reqtest_manage_text README

## Overview
ReqTest-Manage-Text is a human-readable syntax for managing requirements, tests, and project management. It is designed to be user-friendly and efficient, allowing users to create, edit, and manage their requirements, tests and projects in a text format. 

## Core Philosophy

> **RequiremenTest (ReqTest) Definition**: A feature with a expected functionality that must be achieved, and the test that prove it was achieved.

The core philosophy at the heart of Text-ReqTest-Manager is that when taking on a task there are two questions that go hand in hand:
1. **What is it supposed to do?**
2. **How do you know it does it?**

These two questions are the basis of the ReqTest definition. The requirements and tests are the two sides of the same coin and need to be managed together.


## Features
- **Text Based:** The syntax is text based for human readability and ease of use. The user will be able to manually update their projects from the text editor, as well as through the application.
- **Querable Structure:** The text is structured in a way that allows for easy querying and searching. This will allow for easy navigation and management of the project objects.
- **Version Control:** The system supports version control for tracking major and minor changes to the project main file. 
- **Design Documentation:** The system supports design documentation for the project. This will allow for easy tracking of the design and architecture of the project tied to the project main file.

## rmt syntax

Each reqtest object is defined in a text file with the following syntax:

- Blocks are defined by `.'.`
- The first line with the start block is the name of the block.
- After the name of the block, each following field in the block is indented with a tab.
- Each field is defined by a key and a value separated by a `: `.

### Example reqtest block
```plaintext

.'. {reqtest_name}
    reqtest_id: {reqtest_id} 
    description: {description}
    owner: {owner}
    status: {status}
    detail: {detail}
    test_criteria: {test_criteria}
.'.
```

## Terminal Commands for ReqTest-Manage-Text - rmt

### rmt init
The `rmt init` command initializes a new project in the current directory. It creates a new file called `project.rmt` and sets up the necessary structure for the project.

```bash
rmt init
```

### rmt add
The `rmt add` command adds a new reqtest object to the project.rmt file from the `docs/reqtesttemplate.rmt` template. The command will prompt the user for the name of the reqtest object, which will replace the `{reqtest_name}` placeholder in the template. The new reqtest object will be added to the `project.rmt` file with a new line after the last reqtest object. 
 - A unique id will be generated by using the date time and a random set of three letters to replace the `{reqtest_id}` placeholder in the template. The date time will be formatted as `YYYYMMDD-HHMMSS`.
 - The command will not allow for the same reqtest name to be used twice.

```bash
rmt add
```

### rmt list
The `rmt list` command lists all the reqtest objects in the project.rmt file. The command will read the project.rmt file and print the name of each reqtest object to the terminal.

```bash
rmt list
```

### rmt remove

The `rmt remove` command removes a reqtest object from the project.rmt file. The command will prompt the user for the name of the reqtest object to remove. The reqtest object will be removed from the project.rmt file.
- The command will allow for tab completion of the reqtest object name. 
- The command will also provide feedback if the reqtest object does not exist in the project.rmt file.


```bash
rmt remove
```

### rmt details

The `rmt details` command provides detailed information about a specific reqtest object. It prompts the user for the name of the reqtest object and displays its associated details.
- The command will allow for tab completion of the reqtest object name.
- The command will also provide feedback if the reqtest object does not exist in the project.rmt file.
- The command retrieves and displays all relevant fields associated with the reqtest object.
- The command will also provide feedback if the reqtest object does not exist in the project.rmt file.

```bash
rmt details
```

### rmt edit
The `rmt edit` command allows the user to edit a specific reqtest object in the project.rmt file. It prompts the user for the name of the reqtest object and opens it in a text editor for modification.

### rmt tree

The `rmt tree` command displays the hierarchical structure of the reqtest objects in the project.rmt file. It provides a visual representation of the relationships between different reqtest objects.
- The objects will follow a hierarchical structure noted by a 0.0.0 numbering system.
    - Example:
        - 0.0
            - 0.1
            - 0.2
        - 1.0
            - 1.1
            - 1.2
                - 1.2.1 
- insert new items at the cursor
- automatically number the items and dynamically update the numbering of the items as they are added or removed
- Change the hierarchical level of the item by using the tab key to indent and shift+tab to unindent
- Move all the sub items of the item when the item is moved
- Navigate the tree using the arrow keys
- shift+arrow keys to select multiple items
- ctrl+arrow keys to move the selected items up or down
- use the ink library for the functionality to use a React component to display the tree
- Keep the numbering updating when edits are made
- Have a save and exit option to save the changes made to the tree and update the project.rmt files


```bash
rmt tree
```


## License

This project is dual-licensed under the following terms:

- **GNU General Public License v2.0 (GPL-2.0)**: For personal use.
- **Commercial License**: For commercial use, please contact `terzitech@gmail.com`. For first adopters the licensing will be free, but still tracked as a commercial license. 

For more details, see the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file.